design/data-model.md, before:

# Data model

To keep the data model simple metadata will only be produce per species and per photo. Family and genus pages can be derived from the species metadata.

```mermaid
erDiagram
    Species {
        string ID
        string family
        string genus
        string species
        string description
        string aphiaID
        string eolID
        string wikipediaURL
        string comments
        stringarray colours
    }
    Observation }|--|| Species: contains
    Observation {
        string ID
        string genus
        string species
        string diveSiteName
        string observer
        string observerORCID
        string comments
        float latitude
        float longitude
        float depth
        float temperature
        integer year
        integer month
        integer day
        integer hour
        integer minute
        integer rating
        date date
    }
```

## Data format

Species and observation data is stored as Markdown [front matter](https://gitpress.io/c/helps/front-matter) in [YAML format](https://yaml.org/) in [`_species`](_species) and [`_observations`](_observations), respectively.

## IDs

Species ID and Observation ID form the filenames of the appropriate files.

For a species, the ID will take the form of `genus-species` such as `chromodoris-westraliensis`.

For an observation, the ID will take the form of `genus-species-number` such as `chromodoris-westraliensis-0001`

Each Observation must have corresponding photo with an identical filename (exlucding file type suffix). For example, Observation `_observations/chromodoris-westraliensis-0001.md` would have a matching `assets/images/chromodoris-westraliensis-0001/md`.

Commit message:

More shift to Darwin Core Simple
Signed-off-by: Matthias Liffers <m@tthi.as>

design/data-model.md, after:

# Data model

To keep the data model simple metadata will only be produce per species and per photo. Family and genus pages can be derived from the species metadata. Where possible, terms are taken from [Darwin Core Simple](https://dwc.tdwg.org/simple/).

```mermaid
erDiagram
    Species {
        string scientificName
        string identificationQualifier
        string family
        string genus
        string specificEpithet
        string taxonRank
        string scientificNameAuthorship
        stringarray colours
        string aphiaID
        string eolID
        string wikipediaURL
        string taxonRemarks
    }
    Observation }|--|| Species: contains
    Observation {
        string type
        string basisOfRecord
        string recordedBy
        string recordedByID
        string occurrenceRemarks
        date eventDate
        time eventTime
        int year
        int month
        int day
        string locationRemarks
        float minimumDepthInMeters
        float maximumDepthInMeters
        float decimalLatitude
        float decimalLatitude
        float temperature
        string identifiedBy
        string identifiedByID
        string scientificName
        string identificationQualifier
    }
```

## Data format

Species and observation data is stored as Markdown [front matter](https://gitpress.io/c/helps/front-matter) in [YAML format](https://yaml.org/) in [`_species`](_species) and [`_observations`](_observations), respectively.

## IDs

Species ID and Observation ID form the filenames of the appropriate files.

For a species, the ID will take the form of `scientificName` such as `chromodoris-westraliensis` or `scientificName-identificationQualifier` such as `aphelodoris-sp.-1` if the species has not yet been described..

For an observation, the ID will take the form of `scientificName-number` such as `chromodoris-westraliensis-0001` or `scientificName-identificationQualifier-number` if a species-level identification cannot be made.

Each Observation must have corresponding photo with an identical filename (excluding file type suffix). For example, Observation `_observations/chromodoris-westraliensis-0001.md` would have a matching `assets/images/chromodoris-westraliensis-0001.jpg`.
